MineSweeper Version: Propane 1.0
CP337 Java Programming Spring 2017
Chris Peragine

Microsoft Minesweeper (formerly Minesweeper) is a minesweeper computer game created by 
Curt Johnson, originally for OS/2, and ported to Microsoft Windows by Robert Donner, 
both Microsoft employees at the time. First officially released as part of the Microsoft 
Entertainment Pack 1 in 1990, it was included in the standard install of Windows 3.1 in 
1992, replacing Reversi from Windows 3.0. Microsoft Minesweeper has been included in all 
subsequent Windows releases until Windows 8. An updated version included in Windows Vista 
and Windows 7 was developed by Oberon Media. In Windows 8 and later the game is not 
included, but a free equivalent developed by Arkadium it is available from the 
Windows Store.

The goal of the game is to uncover all the squares that do not contain mines without being 
"blown up" by clicking on a square with a mine underneath. The location of the mines is 
discovered by a process of logic. Clicking on the game board will reveal what is hidden 
underneath the chosen square or squares (a large number of blank squares may be revealed in 
one go if they are adjacent to each other). Some squares are blank but some contain numbers 
(1 to 8), each number being the number of mines adjacent to the uncovered square. To help 
avoid hitting a mine, the location of a suspected mine can be marked by flagging it with the 
right mouse button. The game is won once all blank squares have been uncovered without 
hitting a mine, any remaining mines not identified by flags being automatically flagged by 
the computer. However, in the event that a game is lost and the player mistakenly flags a 
safe square, that square will either appear with a red X covering the mine (denoting it as 
safe), or just a red X (also denoting it as safe). The game board comes in three set 
sizes: beginner, intermediate, and expert, though a custom option is available as well.
In early versions of the game, a cheat code let players peek beneath the tiles.

Microsoft removed Minesweeper from Windows 8 and instead published a free equivalent on its 
Windows Store. The new version is developed by Arkadium and is ad-supported. The initial 
release was supported by 30 second video ads. Later releases had monthly and annual 
subscription options to remove the ads. Multiple news outlets criticized the change as greedy.
This version updates both motifs. Daily challenges and an adventure mode were also added.